15/05 14:05
	Features done:
	
1) Now every time the user adds book that its author is already in the DB it will no longer add him/her again, it will just gather their id.The same goes with the categories.
	
2) The user can now see wich books he/she read in each month (the books are displayed in a table).

3) The years shown are gather from the database. I have to find a way to only display the years the user added books.	
4)Implemented error handlers: if one input is empty a message will appear telling the user he/she didn't fill in all the fields.
	

16/05 12:14
	Features done:
	
1) Changed the design from tables to boxes with the images of the books (got to implement that).
	
2) Created a algorithm that searchs in the web for the book cover (it is too slow). Will use this to add the book cover everytime the user adds a new book. The cover image will be stored in a folder inside the server and its name will have the id of the book from the database.
	
3)Implemented search procedure (for now it only shows exact matches with the database - I gotta solve that) SOLVED.



17/08 14:13
	Features done:
	
1) Implemented system that when you add a new book, the image is downloaded from the internet and stored in a folder called "images" in the server. It is then showed in the home page. (Have to set error handlers).
	
2) Implemented error handlers so that if the image was not downloaded the add_book task will not be created and stored in the database.
	
3) Implemented an algorithm that translates the book title to english if the author name apears to be from a english speaking country - it makes the searchs into goodreads more precise (still has some flaws). Se for brasileiro, o livro não será traduzido.
	


18/05 14:32
	Features done: 
	
1) Implemented the edit feature.
	
2) Added the delete button that erases the book from the list of books read.
	
3) Changed the color of the nav and div of the years to red and made them stick to the webpage even if the user scroll down.



19/05 17:21
	
1) Added classification system. There's the styling part still left.
	
2) Implemented a delete button in the edit section that deletes the book's cover.
	
3) implemented a add button that adds a book cover.




21/05 15:20
	
1) Fixed the add cover feature. Now when the user clicks to add a new cover for the book, the image is added.




27/06 12:52
Features done:
	
1) Added a new font.
	
2) Improved position of elements.
	
3) Add animation to notes 
	
4) Add animation in the month element (working)
	
5) Fixed page redirect when add note in the edit section (working)




I got to figure out a way to:


1) highlight the year the user is seeing.

2) display right on the side of the month how many books the user read in that month of that particular year.(Done)

3) allow the user to edit the books informations.(Done)

4) when the user add a new book, the page must go the the correspondent year the book was read.(Done)

5) change how the books are displayed - show pictures and so on...(Done)

6) add star system (0-10 score) to the books so that the users can tell how much they like the book.

7) display books per category

8) add comments to the books - the user can write what he/she thought of the book.

9) only show in the initial page the years the user added books to. If not, don't show it. (Done)

10) make the images downloaded match with the book. Develop a way to allways (or at least in most cases) give the user the right image.(Done)

11) don't translate when the book is in portuguese. Otherwise, the python algorith wont find any google search of it and it will give the wrong image.(Done)

12) Display a message when the user inserts a non valid month.(Done)

13) Delete cover image in the edit section.(Done)

14) Fix the add cover button. Right now it doesn't do anything when pressed.(Done)

15) Style the login page.

16) Style the sign up page.

17) Style the profile page.

18) Create feature to allow user to upload images.

19) Create a modal with the book's information, the classification system and an textarea to add what the user thought about it.
		
